README.md, before:


# yuza-sosa

**Table of Contents**
-------------------
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Manual Setup](#manual-setup)
* [Project Structure](#project-structure)
* [Customization](#customization)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Accessing Fetched Data](#accessing-fetched-data)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
* [TODO](#todo)
* [License](#license)

### Contributing
---------------
* Clone the repository
* Create a new branch
* Run `make pre-commit` to run the pre-commit hooks
* Commit messages should be in the following format:
    * `feat: {description}`
    * `fix: {description}`
    * `docs: {description}`
    * `style: {description}`
    * `refactor: {description}`
    * `test: {description}`

* Before merging to `master`, the `develop` branch should be merged into `master`


### Prerequisites
---------------

* Docker
* Docker Compose
* Make

```bash
cp .env-example .env `
```

make sure you set .env with:
```
DUNE_API_KEY={YOUR_KEY}
```

### Quick Start
-------------

To set up and run the entire project, simply execute:

```
chmod +x setup.sh
./setup.sh
```

### Manual Setup
-------------

If you prefer to run the commands manually, you can use the following Make commands:

* `make build`: Build the Docker images
* `make init`: Initialize Airflow
* `make up`: Start Airflow services
* `make down`: Stop Airflow services
* `make logs`: View logs
* `make shell`: Access the Airflow shell

### Project Structure
-----------------

* `dags/daily_etl.py`: The main Airflow DAG file
* `dags/validate_dags.py.py`: The helper script to validate the DAGs
* `dbt_project/` DBT project config example - includes the DBT models and seeds
* `Dockerfile`: Defines the Docker image for Airflow
* `docker-compose.yml`: Defines the services (Airflow, PostgreSQL)
* `requirements.txt`: Lists the Python dependencies
* `Makefile`: Contains shortcuts for common commands
* `setup.sh`: Script to automate the entire setup process

### Customization
-------------

To modify the analysis or add new features:

1. Edit the `dags/daily_etl.py` file
2. Rebuild the Docker images and Restart the services using `sync-dags`

### Testing
------

This project includes both unit tests and end-to-end tests for the Airflow DAG.

* `make test`: Run all tests
* `make test-unit`: Run only unit tests
* `make test-e2e`: Run only end-to-end tests

### Accessing Fetched Data
---------------------

To access the DB data:

1. `docker exec -it yuza-sosa-postgres-1 bash`
2. `psql -U airflow -d airflow`
3. `SELECT * FROM .... LIMIT 10;`

### Troubleshooting
-----------------

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check the logs using `make logs`
2. Ensure all required ports are available (8080 for Airflow webserver)
3. Try stopping all services with `make down`, then start again with `make up`
4. Create dags, logs and plugins folder inside the project directory
5. Set user permissions for Airflow to your current user ex:
```bash
sudo chown -R airflow:airflow /opt/airflow
```
5. If fails, set manually `DUNE_API_KEY` can be done in airflow.cfg or console

### TODO
------



### License
-------

MIT License

Commit message:

docs: info about airflow dependencies

README.md, after:


# yuza-sosa

**Table of Contents**
-------------------
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Quick Start](#quick-start)
* [Manual Setup](#manual-setup)
* [Project Structure](#project-structure)
* [Customization](#customization)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Accessing Fetched Data](#accessing-fetched-data)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
* [TODO](#todo)
* [License](#license)

### Contributing
---------------
* Clone the repository
* Create a new branch
* Run `make pre-commit` to run the pre-commit hooks
* Commit messages should be in the following format:
    * `feat: {description}`
    * `fix: {description}`
    * `docs: {description}`
    * `style: {description}`
    * `refactor: {description}`
    * `test: {description}`

* Before merging to `master`, the `develop` branch should be merged into `master`


### Prerequisites
---------------

* Docker
* Docker Compose
* Make

```bash
cp .env-example .env `
```

make sure you set .env with:
```
DUNE_API_KEY={YOUR_KEY}
```

### Quick Start
-------------

To set up and run the entire project, simply execute:

```
chmod +x setup.sh
./setup.sh
```

### Manual Setup
-------------

If you prefer to run the commands manually, you can use the following Make commands:

* `make build`: Build the Docker images
* `make init`: Initialize Airflow
* `make up`: Start Airflow services
* `make down`: Stop Airflow services
* `make logs`: View logs
* `make shell`: Access the Airflow shell

### Project Structure
-----------------

* `dags/daily_etl.py`: The main Airflow DAG file
* `dags/validate_dags.py.py`: The helper script to validate the DAGs
* `dbt_project/` DBT project config example - includes the DBT models and seeds
* `Dockerfile`: Defines the Docker image for Airflow
* `docker-compose.yml`: Defines the services (Airflow, PostgreSQL)
* `requirements.txt`: Lists the Python dependencies
* `Makefile`: Contains shortcuts for common commands
* `setup.sh`: Script to automate the entire setup process

### Customization
-------------

To modify the analysis or add new features:

1. Edit the `dags/daily_etl.py` file
2. Rebuild the Docker images and Restart the services using
```bash
make sync-dags
```
3. If updated dependencies in `requirements.txt` then make sure Airflow has the latest dependencies by running:
```bash
make build
make down
make up
```

### Testing
------

This project includes both unit tests and end-to-end tests for the Airflow DAG.

* `make test`: Run all tests
* `make test-unit`: Run only unit tests
* `make test-e2e`: Run only end-to-end tests

### Accessing Fetched Data
---------------------

To access the DB data:

1. `docker exec -it yuza-sosa-postgres-1 bash`
2. `psql -U airflow -d airflow`
3. `SELECT * FROM .... LIMIT 10;`

### Troubleshooting
-----------------

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check the logs using `make logs`
2. Ensure all required ports are available (8080 for Airflow webserver)
3. Try stopping all services with `make down`, then start again with `make up`
4. Create dags, logs and plugins folder inside the project directory
5. Set user permissions for Airflow to your current user ex:
```bash
sudo chown -R airflow:airflow /opt/airflow
```
5. If fails, set manually `DUNE_API_KEY` can be done in airflow.cfg or console

### TODO
------



### License
-------

MIT License
